# Stylometry-Machine-Learning-Project
Stylometry: Quantifying Classic Literature For Authorship Attribution A Machine Learning Approach

Classic literature is still viable in modern times, and in different parts of the world, students study classic literature in schools [1][2]. Whether schools and universities teach classic literature for sociological, historical, cultural, or linguistic purposes, prominent classic literature still contains unique linguistic styles and characteristics that make this type of work gain significance to be part of the educational curriculum. 
From a linguistic perspective, classic literature can be a valuable resource for advanced text analysis to obtain information, including but not limited to text structure, vocabulary richness, lexical diversity, cultural contexts, and semantics, to use such properties to identify authors, improve writing styles by discovering the characteristics of an adequate language as a tool for human expression and communication.
In recent years, Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques evolved at a fast speed where they offer a wide range of powerful computational abilities, namely Large Language Models (LLMs) that adopt the Transformer Architecture [6]. The LLMs are capable of processing and analyzing large corpora in-depth to perform various linguistic tasks, some of which are text generation, question answering, text translation, sentiment analysis, and feature extraction. 
Consequently, utilizing LLMs on classic literature to perform stylometric analysis may yield better results than those achieved in previous studies that used the traditional NLP techniques. 
Although LLMs offer robust capabilities for conducting linguistics tasks, they are generally intensive resource consumers and require large amounts of data and lengthy training times.
Authorship attribution and stylometry are the most promising data science applications of literary analysis. 
Traditionally, authorship attribution was based on subjective factors such as handwriting analysis or discovering information about an author’s personal life. Although this method could be better, it can lead to errors and bias. 
AI can analyze large amounts of text to identify patterns and unique linguistic attributes. Stylometric analysis can detect forgeries and misattributions [10]. In 2018, a study developed a system to identify writing styles for document classifications using stylometric analysis and unsupervised learning. This project intends to apply a similar approach to the latter study to analyze classic literature’s linguistic features and perform authorship classification tasks using modern supervised machine learning algorithms. 
Furthermore, this study will also utilize one of the State-Of-The-Art models, namely, RoBERTa, to evaluate its performance in authorship classification tasks.
